howto_keepass/howto_keepass_EN.md, before:

# How to - Keepass

- [How to - Keepass](#how-to---keepass)
  - [Introduction to the software](#introduction-to-the-software)
  - [Installation](#installation)
    - [On Windows](#on-windows)
    - [Language package installation](#language-package-installation)
  - [Usage](#usage)
    - [Create a database](#create-a-database)
    - [Create a new entry in the database](#create-a-new-entry-in-the-database)
    - [Use an existing entry](#use-an-existing-entry)
    - [Use the password generator](#use-the-password-generator)

## Introduction to the software

[KeePass][website] is a software from the "password managers" family. Its purpose is to save in an database file all off your passwords. This database is of course encrypted to guarantee the confidentialy of the information contained within.  
Other password manager softwares exist, but I have not tested them personally ([1Password][1password], [LastPass][lastpass], ...). [KeePass][website] is a good pick for managing your passwords since it's recommanded by the [ANSSI][anssi] (CERT-FR).

## Installation

### On Windows

The software can be downloaded from the official KeePass website, in [Downloads](https://keepass.info/download.html) section. Please make sure you download version 2.x.y, latest available and maintained version.  
The installation process is the same as for any other software.

### Language package installation

The language packages can be found in the [Translations](https://keepass.info/translations.html) section. Choose the language package corresponding to the downloaded and installed KeePass version.  
One the package is downloaded, open the KeePass software, go to "Display > Change Language...". On the bottom left part of the newly opened window, click on "Open Folder". The Windows Explorer opens up in the folder where all language packages are stored. Copy the downloaded language pack there.  
Relaunch KeePass, and re-select "Display > Change Language..." : your language is now available.

## Usage

### Create a database

1. After opening the software, select the icon to create a new database, or use the keyboard shortcut `Ctrl + N`, or select "File > New...". ![Creating the database](1_creer_base.png)
1. On the next screen, select the location for your future new database, as well as its name. ![Saving the database](2_save_base.png)
1. On the next screen, you are asked to type in the master password for your database. This password is going to protect all of your other passwords. It's important that you choose it well. Some tips:
   1. A strong password is mainly defined by its length, not on the richness of the dictionnary used
   1. Introducing some special characters and/or numbers by substituting some regular letters will increase the strength of your password (1337 code)
   1. It's easier to remember a password based on ourselves than an apparently random series of characters
   1. The software estimates the strength of your password in bits. Currently, a password is considered strong if its complexity of over 80 bits.
   1. Some good password examples:
      1. 1REALLYd0n'tlikec00kies!!
      1. Hetalkstomelightly,Is33l1f31np1nk
      1. Cyb3rs3cur1ty1sNOTHARD1fw34llc0ntr1but3...
1. Once your password is chosen and validated, the following screen offers several elements. We will only discuss the tabs of interest, but you're free to explore the other options
   1. "General" tab: type in the name you wish to give to your databse. ![Naming the database](3_onglet_gnrl.png)
   1. "Security" tab: it's the most important one when creating your database. Its robustness depends on the settings chosen here.
      1. Encryption algorithm: chose "AES/Rijndael (256-bits key, FIPS 197)"
      1. Key-derivation function: "AES-KDF"
      1. To define the number of iterations, click the "1 second delay" button at the bottom of the window ![Setting up security](4_onglet_securite.png)

Your new databse is now created and ready to use. Save it right now (`Ctrl + S`)!

### Create a new entry in the database

1. To create a new entry, click the icon shaped like a key to the right of the Save icon, or use `Ctrl + I`
1. On the new window, many options are proposed. Let's review the most useful ones
   1. "Entry" tab
      * Title: the name of the entry. For Facebook, as an example, a good title is... "Facebook"
      * Username: the username generally used in the "Login"/"ID"/"Identifier" field of the desired website or service
      * Password: you can type in a password and confirm it, or use the password generator (see [Use the password generator](#use-the-password-generator)). The 3-dots button at the end of the line reveals the password in clear text
      * Address (URL): link to the website/service
      * Expires on: if you wish to define a reminder to change the password after some time !["Entry" tab](5_nvl_entree_onglet_entree.png)
    1. "Auto-type" tab: this tab allows you to define what will be automatically filled in the appropriate fields on the desired website/service by setting up a keyboard sequence. For example, the Facebook website asks for 2 fields: ID and password. The following figure shows how to set up the sequence so that these fields are automatically filled in. To use auto-type on Facebook, click on the "Login" field (cursor must blip in this field), return to KeePass, select the Facebook entry and use `Ctrl + V`. Focus will return to the Facebook webpage and the characters will be typed in. You may also use the "2-way obfuscation" at the bottom of the window to induce confusion for a potential attacker. ![Auto-type](6_nvl_entree_saisie_auto.png)
1. Once your new entry is properly set, validate by clicking "OK" and **save your database**.

### Use an existing entry

* If you have set up auto-type for the entry, you simply need to select the first field to be filled on the website/service, and use `Ctrl + V`.
* If the auto-type is not set up, you'll need to copy/paste the ID and the password. To do so, double-click on the ID or the password in the desired entry: it is now placed in your computer's paperclip for 12 seconds. This will give you time to paste it in the matching field on the website/service.

### Use the password generator

This is probably the most useful tool in KeePass. It allows you, with a variety of parameters, to automatically generate reobust passwords. Associate it to database management, and you won't ever have to remember hundreds of passwords, or worse, using the same password on multiple services.  
To begin, go to the "Entry" tab of an entry, and open the password generator. ![Open generator](7_ouvrir_generateur.png)  
We will focus here solely on the "Settings" tab of the generator. You're free to explore the other options. On this screen, define the complexity settings required for your password. Do not hesitate to pump them up if the service allows you! (ie.: the service tells you to use at least 12 characters but allows you to use 26, please use 26!). Those settings will be used by the generator to create a password matching those rules. _The settings I use most are the ones shown in the below screenshot._ ![Generator settings](8_parametres_generateur.png)  
One your settings are defined, simply click "OK" so that a matching password is generated and entered in the password field of the entry.


[website]: https://keepass.info
[1password]: https://1password.com/
[lastpass]: https://www.lastpass.com/fr
[anssi]: https://www.ssi.gouv.fr/

Commit message:

Added paragraph on database saving
Signed-off-by: ylelong <ylelong@i-tracing.com>

howto_keepass/howto_keepass_EN.md, after:

# How to - Keepass

- [How to - Keepass](#how-to---keepass)
  - [Introduction to the software](#introduction-to-the-software)
  - [Installation](#installation)
    - [On Windows](#on-windows)
    - [Language package installation](#language-package-installation)
  - [Usage](#usage)
    - [Create a database](#create-a-database)
    - [Create a new entry in the database](#create-a-new-entry-in-the-database)
    - [Use an existing entry](#use-an-existing-entry)
    - [Use the password generator](#use-the-password-generator)
    - [Save the database](#save-the-database)

## Introduction to the software

[KeePass][website] is a software from the "password managers" family. Its purpose is to save in an database file all off your passwords. This database is of course encrypted to guarantee the confidentialy of the information contained within.  
Other password manager softwares exist, but I have not tested them personally ([1Password][1password], [LastPass][lastpass], ...). [KeePass][website] is a good pick for managing your passwords since it's recommanded by the [ANSSI][anssi] (CERT-FR).

## Installation

### On Windows

The software can be downloaded from the official KeePass website, in [Downloads](https://keepass.info/download.html) section. Please make sure you download version 2.x.y, latest available and maintained version.  
The installation process is the same as for any other software.

### Language package installation

The language packages can be found in the [Translations](https://keepass.info/translations.html) section. Choose the language package corresponding to the downloaded and installed KeePass version.  
One the package is downloaded, open the KeePass software, go to "Display > Change Language...". On the bottom left part of the newly opened window, click on "Open Folder". The Windows Explorer opens up in the folder where all language packages are stored. Copy the downloaded language pack there.  
Relaunch KeePass, and re-select "Display > Change Language..." : your language is now available.

## Usage

### Create a database

1. After opening the software, select the icon to create a new database, or use the keyboard shortcut `Ctrl + N`, or select "File > New...". ![Creating the database](1_creer_base.png)
1. On the next screen, select the location for your future new database, as well as its name. ![Saving the database](2_save_base.png)
1. On the next screen, you are asked to type in the master password for your database. This password is going to protect all of your other passwords. It's important that you choose it well. Some tips:
   1. A strong password is mainly defined by its length, not on the richness of the dictionnary used
   1. Introducing some special characters and/or numbers by substituting some regular letters will increase the strength of your password (1337 code)
   1. It's easier to remember a password based on ourselves than an apparently random series of characters
   1. The software estimates the strength of your password in bits. Currently, a password is considered strong if its complexity of over 80 bits.
   1. Some good password examples:
      1. 1REALLYd0n'tlikec00kies!!
      1. Hetalkstomelightly,Is33l1f31np1nk
      1. Cyb3rs3cur1ty1sNOTHARD1fw34llc0ntr1but3...
1. Once your password is chosen and validated, the following screen offers several elements. We will only discuss the tabs of interest, but you're free to explore the other options
   1. "General" tab: type in the name you wish to give to your databse. ![Naming the database](3_onglet_gnrl.png)
   1. "Security" tab: it's the most important one when creating your database. Its robustness depends on the settings chosen here.
      1. Encryption algorithm: chose "AES/Rijndael (256-bits key, FIPS 197)"
      1. Key-derivation function: "AES-KDF"
      1. To define the number of iterations, click the "1 second delay" button at the bottom of the window ![Setting up security](4_onglet_securite.png)

Your new databse is now created and ready to use. Save it right now (`Ctrl + S`)!

### Create a new entry in the database

1. To create a new entry, click the icon shaped like a key to the right of the Save icon, or use `Ctrl + I`
1. On the new window, many options are proposed. Let's review the most useful ones
   1. "Entry" tab
      * Title: the name of the entry. For Facebook, as an example, a good title is... "Facebook"
      * Username: the username generally used in the "Login"/"ID"/"Identifier" field of the desired website or service
      * Password: you can type in a password and confirm it, or use the password generator (see [Use the password generator](#use-the-password-generator)). The 3-dots button at the end of the line reveals the password in clear text
      * Address (URL): link to the website/service
      * Expires on: if you wish to define a reminder to change the password after some time !["Entry" tab](5_nvl_entree_onglet_entree.png)
    1. "Auto-type" tab: this tab allows you to define what will be automatically filled in the appropriate fields on the desired website/service by setting up a keyboard sequence. For example, the Facebook website asks for 2 fields: ID and password. The following figure shows how to set up the sequence so that these fields are automatically filled in. To use auto-type on Facebook, click on the "Login" field (cursor must blip in this field), return to KeePass, select the Facebook entry and use `Ctrl + V`. Focus will return to the Facebook webpage and the characters will be typed in. You may also use the "2-way obfuscation" at the bottom of the window to induce confusion for a potential attacker. ![Auto-type](6_nvl_entree_saisie_auto.png)
1. Once your new entry is properly set, validate by clicking "OK" and **save your database**.

### Use an existing entry

* If you have set up auto-type for the entry, you simply need to select the first field to be filled on the website/service, and use `Ctrl + V`.
* If the auto-type is not set up, you'll need to copy/paste the ID and the password. To do so, double-click on the ID or the password in the desired entry: it is now placed in your computer's paperclip for 12 seconds. This will give you time to paste it in the matching field on the website/service.

### Use the password generator

This is probably the most useful tool in KeePass. It allows you, with a variety of parameters, to automatically generate reobust passwords. Associate it to database management, and you won't ever have to remember hundreds of passwords, or worse, using the same password on multiple services.  
To begin, go to the "Entry" tab of an entry, and open the password generator. ![Open generator](7_ouvrir_generateur.png)  
We will focus here solely on the "Settings" tab of the generator. You're free to explore the other options. On this screen, define the complexity settings required for your password. Do not hesitate to pump them up if the service allows you! (ie.: the service tells you to use at least 12 characters but allows you to use 26, please use 26!). Those settings will be used by the generator to create a password matching those rules. _The settings I use most are the ones shown in the below screenshot._ ![Generator settings](8_parametres_generateur.png)  
One your settings are defined, simply click "OK" so that a matching password is generated and entered in the password field of the entry.

### Save the database

After some time using KeePass, your database will contain more and more passwords, maybe even all of them. It is crucial that you have several local saves of your database so you can retrieve it in case of a material or software failure one your computer and/or mobile phone.  
If you followed my adivce during the initial set up of your database, it is properly secured and will be extremely hard to compromise event if an attacker managed to steal it. It's the reason why you can save it in multiple places that would ordinarily be considered as unreliable in terms of security.  
Therefore, if you have one or several account on online storage services (Google Cloud, Dropbox, OneDrive, ...), you can drop a copy of your database there safely. Just make sure that when saving it, the database is synced to the desired service! Otherwise, you risk having conflicts in your databse if modified on 2 different devices.


[website]: https://keepass.info
[1password]: https://1password.com/
[lastpass]: https://www.lastpass.com/fr
[anssi]: https://www.ssi.gouv.fr/
